                        EDITOR USER MANUAL

                         by Bill Stoddart
                     of FIG, United Kingdom

FORTH organizes its mass storage into "screens" of 1024 characters.
If, for example, a diskette of 250k byte capacity is used entirely
for storing text, it will appear to the user as 250 screens
numbered O to 249.

Each screen is organized as 16 lines with 64 characters per line.
The FORTH screens are merely an arrangement of virtual memory and
need not correspond exactly with the screen format of a particular
terminal.

               Selecting a Screen and Input of Text

To start an editing session the user types EDITOR to invoke the
appropriate vocabulary.

The screen to be edited is then selected, using either:

    n LIST ( list screen n and select it for editing ) OR
    n CLEAR ( clear screen n and select for editing )

To input new test to screen n after LIST or CLEAR the P (put)
command is used.

Example:

     O P THIS IS HOW
     1 P TO INPUT TEXT
     2 P TO LINES O, 1, AND 2 OF THE SELECTED SCREEN.


                         Line Editing

During this descirption of the editor, reference is made to PAD.
This is a text buffer which may hold a line of text used by or
saved with a line editing command, or a text string to be found or
deleted by a string editing command.

PAD can be used to transfer a line from one screen to another, as
well as to perform edit operations within a single screen.

                      Line Editor Commands

n H     Hold line n at PAD (used by system more often than by user)

n D     Delete line n but hold it in PAD. Line 15 becomes blank`
        as lines n+1 to 15 move up 1 line.

n T     Type line n and save it in PAD.

n R     Replace line n with the text in PAD.

n I     Insert the text from PAD at line n, moving the old line n
        and following lines down. Line 15 is lost. _

n E     Erase line n with blanks.

n S     Spread at line n. n and subsequent lines move down 1
        line. Line n becomes blank. Line 15 is lost.


             Cursor Control and String Editing

The screen of text being edited resides in a buffer area of
storage. The editing cursor is a variable holding an offset into
this buffer area. Commands are provided for the user to position
the cursor, either directly or by searching for a string of buffer
text, and to insert or delete text at the cursor position.

               Commands to Position the Cursor

TOP        Position the cursor at the start of the screen.

N M        Move the cursor by a signed amount n and print the cursor
           line. The position of the cursor on its line is shown by
           a __ (underline).

                   String Editing Commands

F text     Search forward from the current cursor position until
           string "text" is found. The cursor is left at the end
           of the text string, and the cursor line is printed.
           If the string is not found an error message is given
           and the cursor is repositioned at the top of screen.

B          Used after F to back up the cursor by the length of
           the most recent text.

N          Find the next occurrence of the string found by an F
           command.

X text 	   Find and delete the string "text."

C text 	   Copy in text to the cursor line at the cursor position

TILL text  Delete on the cursor line from the cursor till the end
           of the text string "text."

NOTE: 	   Typing C with no text will copy a null into the text
	   at the cursor position. This will abruptly stop later
	   compiling! To delete this error type TOP X 'return‘.



                  Screen Editing Commands

n LIST       List screen n and select it for editing

n CLEAR      Clear screen n with blanks and select it for editing

n1 n2 COPY   Copy screen n1 to screen n2.

L     	     List the current screen. The cursor line is relisted
	     after the screen listing, to show the cursor position.

FLUSH 	     Used at the end of an editing session to ensure that
	     all entries and updates of text have been transferred
	     to disc.



